Welcome back. I hope you
enjoyed working on inner joins.
In the previous video and
exercises, we saw how
inner joins can be
useful by only returning records
that share a value
in specify columns.
However, in some
situations, we might need
all of the entries from
one or both of our tables.
This is where we need
to use outer joins.
There are three types of
outer joins: LEFT JOIN,
RIGHT JOIN, and FULL OUTER JOIN.
Similar to inner joins,
outer joins combine
two tables together;
however, they don't
necessarily need
a match between columns
to return a row.
Which rows are returned
depends on the type of join.
LEFT JOIN returns all of the
records of the first table,
but only returns rows of
the second table that match
on a specified column.
Like we did in the
previous video, let's
examine this type of join by
looking at just four rows of
two tables with a small
number of columns.
Employees is the left
table, or the first table,
and machines is the right
table, or the second table.
Let's join on employee_id.
There's a matching value in
this column for two
of the four records.
When we execute the join,
SQL returns these rows
with the matching value,
all other rows from
the left table, and all
columns from both tables.
Records from the
employees table that
didn't match but were returned
through the LEFT
JOIN contain NULL values
in columns that came
from the machines table.
Next, let's talk
about right joins.
RIGHT JOIN returns all
of the records of
the second table
but only returns rows from
the first table that match
on a specified column.
With a RIGHT JOIN on
the previous example,
the full result returns
matching rows from both,
all the rows from
the second table, and all
the columns in both tables.
For the values that don't
exist in either table,
we are left with a NULL value.
Last, we'll discuss
full outer joins.
FULL OUTER JOIN
returns all records
from both tables. Using
our same example,
a FULL OUTER JOIN returns
all columns from all tables.
If a row doesn't
have a value for
a particular column,
it returns NULL.
For example, the machines table
do not have any rows
with employee_id
1190, so the values
for that row and the
columns that came from the
machines table is NULL.
To implement left
joins, right joins,
and full outer joins
in SQL, you use
the same syntax structure
as the INNER JOIN
but use these keywords:
LEFT JOIN, RIGHT JOIN,
and FULL OUTER JOIN.
As a security analyst,
you're not required to know
all of these from memory.
Once you understand the
type of join you need,
you can quickly search and find
all the information you need
to execute these queries.
With this information on joins,
we've now covered some
very important information
you'll need as a security
analyst using SQL.
Thank you for joining
me in this video.